>> Steve Kinney: What we'll do is,
we'll actually kinda implement
a version of an application.
We saw this application before, when I was
kinda going over the things that we're
gonna do today, it's not a to do list,
it's my packing list.
And, you know what, I will defend
myself in making a to do list,
because I use this app,
[LAUGH] I have it stored in local storage.
And every time I come out here, I make
sure that I bring my toothbrush and.
If you turn your head is a coding board
like we made before, but just two lists,
and things move back and forth between
the two of them, and after I get home,
I hit the mark, all is unpacked.
And they all go back to unpacked, and
when it's time to leave again,
I try not to forget my deodorant.
So we'll kinda begin to implement this.
We're going to get a feel for
what it's like to work with MobX and
our React application.
We are gonna use a version
with decorators, so
I had to use a version of
Create React App that was ejected.
If you're in control of your
own Babel configuration,
you can bring in the proposal for
decorators.
Now, we've talked about the risks here,
right?
When decorators,
if decorators finally ship in ECMAScript.
It could be the case that,
they are slightly semantically different,
and you're gonna have
to do some refactoring.
In my experience, in the last few years
since they've still been in proposal
status, they haven't changed that much,
but forewarned is forearmed.
The idea of functions and
higher order functions in JavaScript
is never gonna really change.
Let's take a look at this app.
Right now, it's fine,
it doesn't do anything.
Eventually we'll have this ability
to inject our MobX store, and
these are all the components in here.
I think the new input field,
theoretically, I think has the ability to
just hold some temporary state eventually,
but pretty straightforward.
We're gonna have this ItemModel and
an ItemStore.
So effectively this is very
similar to the plural of items and
the singular of a given item.
So let's go ahead and let's,
we'll need that ItemModel eventually, but
let's start fleshing out the store.
So it's a regular JavaScript class,
it's not really even extending anything.
So what are the things?
We know that it will
have an observable list
of items that will start out as an array,
that seems good.
We know that it will have, in order to
be able to filter it, there's a filter
field on the packed items and the unpacked
items, so we can set that up as well.
Observable and we'll say that.
>> Steve Kinney: UnpackedItemsFilter
is an empty string.
>> Steve Kinney: And we'll do that for
the packed items as well.
Cuz what we'll do is,
basically generate new arrays based on
the content of that filter, where it
literally filters through all the items,
and see if the name
matches what's in there.
So we'll kinda get filtering for free,
in exactly the way that we would just
do it in a regular JavaScript object.
So then, we've gotta figure out
what our packed items are and
our unpacked items are.
And we only wanna regenerate this
list when that array changes at all.
So I can actually say,
we make a computer property,
and we'll say, get packedItems.
And if this feels like just
regular JavaScript, that's good.
This .items,
not just a state nothing, right?
This is .item's a filter,
the item, and look and
see if it's packed
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, all right, so
what are unpacked items?
Well, they're kind of
the opposite of that.
But what I'm gonna do is,
I could filter for not being packed, but
I can also create an API that kinda
makes me happy and inspires joy.
I can say, unpacked, right?
Because that can be a computed property on
the item, we just have priorities packed,
unpacked.
We did this, in the kinda prequel
course where we had the valid, invalid,
we had to getters to this.
So, we can create code that's incredibly
readable, and if we wanna see which
ones are filtered, a computer a property
can rely on another computed property.
So we can say, computed, and
we'll say, get filteredUnpackedList.
Let's do this in the right order,
filteredPackedList, and
that is simply gonna return,
this.packedItems.filter.
>> Steve Kinney: And
that'll be, if the item's value
includes this.unpackedItemsFilter.
So basically, we're kind of building
computer properties on top of each other.
So we have a list of items, we have the
ability to get which ones are packed and
which ones are unpacked, we have a string
for what value we're searching for, right?
And we can begin to build these, so
that outside of our JavaScript object, and
this is also super easy to unit test,
you put some objects in there with some
properties, you can write the unit test.
And all of our, or you'll all be like,
how can we derive from that?
So we do the same thing with unpacked.
So filtered.UnPackedList,
unpacked, this is packed.
Cool, good thing I didn't
type that separately,
cuz I wouldn't have caught that one.
Cool, so we have all of that in place,
we'll probably,
let's just create a few more.
And you're gonna see me do something
here that I haven't talked about yet,
which is this action.bound.
And this is effectively,
we saw there was an auto bind or
a bind this that I joked about before,
this will effectively give us that, so
when we use it in our React
application it knows what this is.
This is the same thing, it's doing
this.whatever equals this whatever,
buying this, we're using arrow functions,
so on and so forth.
>> Steve Kinney: So
we can do a few of these,
let's do updatePackedItemsFilter
>> Steve Kinney: And
all that is gonna do is, say.
>> Steve Kinney: This.packedItemsFilter
equals whatever the new value is.
>> Steve Kinney: This for
unpacked as well.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, and then,
it'd be awesome if we could make a simple
helper for adding and
removing items, right?
So we could say, action.
We're gonna need to do
the item itself action.bound.
Let's just start with adding items, let's
not worry about removing items just yet,
cuz it's, spoiler alert, roughly the same.
Add items, whatever that item is.
And what I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna
leave this out cuz I don't actually have
that yet,
the ability to create a new item.
So we'll just leave that as
a kind of placeholder for now.
All right, so this is the way of
collecting them, it's gonna have
an array of items, it can filter them,
it can sort them into packed and unpacked.
Again, other than a healthy
dose of decorators everywhere,
you'll notice that it's effectively
like a regular JavaScript class.
The decorators are the important part,
I don't wanna undersell it.